% !TeX root = ../ic-screen.tex

\chapter{About this Book}

This is a textbook on G\"odel's incompleteness theorems and recursive
function theory. I use it as the main text when I teach Philosophy 479
(Logic III) at the University of Calgary. It is based on material from the
\href{https://openlogicproject.org}{Open Logic Project}.

As its name suggests, the course is the third in a sequence, so
students (and hence readers of this book) are expected to be familiar
with first-order logic already.  (Logic~I uses the text
\href{https://forallx.openlogicproject.org}{\emph{forall x: Calgary}},
and Logic~II another textbook based on the OLP,
\href{https://slc.openlogicproject.org}{\emph{Sets, Logic,
Computation}}.) The material assumed from Logic~II, however, is
included as \cref{fol:chap,nd:chap}.

Logic III is a thirteen-week course, meeting three hours per week.
This is typically enough to cover the material in
\cref{inc:int::chap,cmp:rec::chap,inc:art::chap,inc:req::chap,inc:inp::chap}
and either \cref{mod:chap} or \cref{lambda:chap}, depending on student
interest. You may want to spend more time on the basics of
first-order logic and especially on natural deduction, if students are
not already familiar with it. Note that when provability in
arithmetical theories (such as $\Th{Q}$ and $\Th{PA}$) is discussed in
the main text, the proofs of provability claims are not given using a
specific proof system. Rather, that certain claims follow from the
axioms by first-order logic is justified intuitively. However,
\cref{deriv:chap} contains a number of examples of actual natural
deduction !!{derivation}s from the axioms of~$\Th{Q}$.

\section*{Acknowledgments}

The material in the OLP used in
\cref{inc:int::chap,cmp:rec::chap,inc:art::chap,inc:req::chap,inc:inp::chap,lambda:chap}
was based originally on Jeremy Avigad's lecture notes on
``Computability and Incompleteness,'' which he contributed to the OLP.
I have heavily revised and expanded this material. The lecture notes,
e.g., based theories of arithmetic on an axiomatic proof system. Here,
we use Gentzen's standard natural deduction system (described in
\cref{nd:chap}), which requires dealing with trees primitive
recursively (in \cref{cmp:rec:tre:sec}) and a more complicated
approach to the arithmetization of !!{derivation}s (in
\cref{inc:art:pnd:sec}). The material in \cref{lambda:chap} was also
expanded by Zesen Qian during his stay in Calgary as a Mitacs summer
intern.

The material in the OLP on model theory and models of arithmetic in
\cref{mod:chap} was originally taken from Aldo Antonelli's lecture
notes on ``The Completeness of Classical Propositional and Predicate
Logic,'' which he contributed to the OLP before his untimely death in
2015.

The biographies of logicians in \cref{bios:chap} and much of the
material in \cref{nd:chap} are originally due to Samara Burns.
Dana H\"agg originally worked on the material in \cref{fol:chap}.
