\emph{Proof systems} provide purely syntactic methods for
characterizing consequence and compatibility between sentences.
\emph{Natural deduction} is one such proof system. A \emph{derivation}
in it consists of a tree of formulas. The topmost formula a derivation
are \emph{assumptions}. All other formulas, for the derivation to be
correct, must be correctly justified by one of a number of
\emph{inference rules}. These come in pairs; an introduction and an
elimination rule for each connective and quantifier. For instance, if
a formula~$!A$ is justified by a $\Elim{\lif}$ rule, the preceding
formulas (the \emph{premises}) must be $!B \lif !A$ and $!B$ (for
some~$!B$). Some inference rules also allow assumptions to be
\emph{discharged}. For instance, if $!A \lif !B$ is inferred from $!B$
using $\Intro{\lif}$, any occurrences of~$!A$ as assumptions in the
derivation leading to the premise~$!B$ may be discharged, given a
label that is also recorded at the inference.

If there is a derivation with end formula~$!A$ and all assumptions are
discharged, we say $!A$ is a theorem and write~$\Proves !A$. If all
undischarged assumptions are in some set~$\Gamma$, we say $!A$ is
\emph{derivable from}~$\Gamma$ and write $\Gamma \Proves !A$. If
$\Gamma \Proves \lfalse$ we say $\Gamma$ is \emph{inconsistent},
otherwise \emph{consistent}. These notions are interrelated, e.g.,
$\Gamma \Proves !A$ iff $\Gamma \cup \{\lnot !A\} \Proves
\lfalse$. They are also related to the corresponding semantic notions,
e.g., if $\Gamma \Proves !A$ then $\Gamma \Entails !A$. This property
of natural deduction---what can be derived from $\Gamma$ is guaranteed
to be entailed by~$\Gamma$---is called \emph{soundness}. The
\emph{soundness theorem} is proved by induction on the length of
derivations, showing that each individual inference preserves
entailment of its conclusion from open assumptions provided its premises are
entailed by their open assumptions.
